>> Should the US Space
Force take over the tracking
and study of UFOs?
Space Force reportedly says no.
Why wouldn't they want
this high-profile job?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the wake of the UAP
report to Congress,
which called for
the US government
to, quote, "standardize
the reporting,
consolidate the data,
and deepen the analysis,"
officials are reportedly calling
on the recently formed Space
Force to play an increased
role in the tracking
and study of UFOs.
But in a recent
report by Politico,
who spoke to five
unnamed officials,
Space Force command is wary of
the assignment because, quote,
"they want people to
take them seriously."
With such a high-profile
order for a service
which is not even
two years old, why
would they balk at the idea?
Cheryl Costa is an investigative
journalist and UFO researcher
who spent nine years
in the US military,
including five years as a Navy
electronic warfare specialist.
She is the co-author of "UFO
Sightings Desk Reference
USA, 2001 to 2020."
>> Well, as far as
Space Force taking over,
let's go back to
the early 2000s.
Ships like the Nimitz and things
started experiencing these UFO
sightings.
Had that been anything that
resembled a Russian aircraft
or a Chinese aircraft, a dozen
different defense intelligence
groups would have
been all over it.
But we have this
stigma since 1968
with the Condon
Report to Congress
that made everybody
who reports a UFO
look like a kook or a crackpot.
None of the defense intelligence
groups wanted to touch it.
They didn't want to be
labeled with that stigma.
Finally, since it was the Navy
that was having all the issues,
Navy intelligence
stepped up to the job
and did what they
were supposed to do.
They investigated it.
OK.
My hat's off to
Navy intelligence
for doing that because
all these other groups--
and now you're hearing
it also with Space Force.
Well, we don't want
to be around that.
Well, the government painted
themselves in this corner
by giving it that stigma.
And they shouldn't
have done that.
But here we are.
>> Space Force was only
established in December
of 2019.
What is their purpose?
Why was Space Force created?
>> What's interesting about
Space Force is they were
established-- and a lot of
people are missing the point
with what it was when
they were established.
We've got a lot of commercial
real estate up there,
our whole communications
satellite thing, all
that stuff.
And the point is
that half the reason
we established the Navy back in
1785 was to protect shipping.
Well, we've got commercial
real estate up there.
And if somebody took it out
with a nuclear EMP missile
sent up there to explode,
just to put out the radio
signal that would burn up all
the satellites electronically,
we'd be in the 19th century
here in about 20 minutes.
A lot of people don't
understand that.
So that's what they're
trying to protect.
But now we've entered
this other thing,
and we're owning up to the
fact that maybe there's
somebody else from another
world that's coming here.
And maybe they'll take
advantage of this thing
and take out our communications
system around the world.
And that would put
the whole culture
in about the 16th century.
We'd be in real deep trouble.
So that's the big
deal with Space Force.
They've got,
technically, the mission.
>> Since they are guarding
US interests in space,
doesn't it stand to reason
they should study UFOs?
>> They theoretically have the
mission of being able to look
at the whole planet as a whole
versus just the oceans or just
the United States or
something like that.
So maybe it is a good idea.
We've got a gap of information,
and a good example here
is these intelligence agencies
don't want to touch it.
And to be honest with
you, my personal feeling
is they haven't had the
clearance or the need-to-know
to go in and pick open all
those compartments from all
these events that have
happened over the years.
Some of the defense
organizations
that are talking
about taking it over,
Space Force has
the best mission.
The issue is, will they be smart
enough to staff it up properly?
>> As someone who has
studied this extensively,
what is your hope for
how this will turn out?
>> I think Space Force should
step up to it robustly and be
as transparent as they can,
except for the stuff that
really should be classified,
that if it's definitely thought
out not to be one of our
adversaries on this planet,
own up to the fact that
somebody else is visiting us.
Give people confirmation.
The American people have grown
up a lot since the 1940s.
The idea of many
worlds out there
and many civilizations out
there is not a new idea.
And I think they really need
to start coming clean with us
about this topic matter.
Space Force is probably the
most logical place for it to be.
I only hope that
they're willing to be
transparent about this
within the limits of what
their mission is.
>> Currently, the US Navy
is taking the lead on UFO
tracking.
But as deputy Defense
Secretary Kathleen Hicks wrote,
the job has, quote,
"expanded significantly
beyond the Secretary
of the Navy's purview."
The UFO issue is now mainstream
and deserves serious study.
Will Space Force take
over the UFO assignment
or disappear under the auspices
of an intelligence agency?
There's no date yet on when that
decision will be made public.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.